Print Barcode 
 > 
 POS System > System Transactions > 
 Print Barcode 
 Use: This screen is 
used to print the items’ barcode. Note that the barcode of each item can be 
printed separately or the barcode can be printed from a specific document or 
according to the items’ group or warehouses’ group. The barcode can also be 
printed according to the pricing, warehouse and 
branch. 
 How to Use Screen 
 Below is some important information about this screen that must be 
mentioned first before explaining how it is used: 
 - 
 First: 
Barcode Printer: The default 
path of the barcode printer exists in the (Default Values Tab) that is found in 
the Users’ Data screen in the Onyx ERP system. Therefore, the system checks this 
field for the barcode printer if there is no assigned one, the system prints 
using the default printer. 
 - 
 Second: 
 Link 
the file to the Ys_ Print_ Barcode Folder Located in the YS_ ERP Folder as 
Follows: 
 The 
user clicks on the Open File button, from the File menu, and then selects the 
Input Data File Setup option, as shown in the following 
figure: 
 The 
user modifies the path of the barcode file as 
follows: 
 Then, the user clicks on the OK button, followed by clicking on Save. 
Therefore, the user will be logged out of the program in order to select a 
specific item to print the barcode with the ability to modify the design of the 
label from the same screen. 
 - 
 Synchronize 
Data: This button is 
used if there are separate POS for which the user wants to print the barcode By 
Document from the sub-server. The data is synchronized from the main center to 
the sub-server, using this button; so that the user can print the POS items as 
barcodes. 
 - 
 Open 
File: This button is 
used to open the main file of the barcode design, it is also used to determine 
the path of the barcode file, and modify the design of the barcode shape as 
explained in the previous steps. 
 - 
 In order to deal 
with the fields of this screen, the user must select the options according to 
which the data of the items will be displayed with the barcode at the bottom of 
the screen and printed. Below are the most important options that the user must 
select to display the items’ data: 
 ? 
 Printing 
Form: This option is 
used to select the suitable form for printing the barcode 
fonts. 
 ? 
 Warehouse 
Number: Upon selecting 
this option, the items are displayed By Warehouse, noting that the user can 
fetch the item quantity in this warehouse in the Number Field (Number of Label 
Printing Times), and can select the warehouse number in the Warehouse Number 
Field. 
 ? 
 Pricing 
Level: This option is 
used to display the items data By Pricing Levels. 
 ? 
 Branch 
Number: This option is 
used to display the items data By Branch. 
 ? 
 Printing 
Times: This field is 
used to determine the number of times in which the barcode is printed. Note that 
the number of printing times can be modified if there is more than one item by 
selecting this field and clicking on the button next to the field; therefore, 
the number of printing times will be modified for all items. 
 ? 
 Item 
Number: This field is 
used to print only one item of the displayed items. The item selected item will 
be printed in this field, and it must be one of the displayed items in the list 
at the bottom of the screen. If the user does not select an item, the barcode 
will be printed for all the displayed items in the details (Table) at the bottom 
of the screen. 
 - 
 After writing 
the item number in the designated field and clicking on the Enter button, all 
the other fields in the screen such as Item Name, Price, Barcode Number, Unit 
and other fields are automatically filled in. 
 ? 
 Print 
Barcode Number: This option is 
used to print the barcode number in the label and not the item 
number. 
 ? 
 Fetch 
Available Quantity: This option is 
used to fetch the available item quantity in the (Number of Printing Times) 
field according to the quantity in the selected 
warehouse. 
 ? 
 Document 
Type: The user 
selects the document type from the available options in this list. Therefore, 
the items can be displayed in the details table at the bottom of the screen, in 
which the items can be displayed By Warehouses Groups –Purchase Invoice-, or 
Sales Invoice, etc. 
 - 
 Upon selecting a 
specific document, the quantity will be fetched in the Number field. 
 - 
 Upon selecting a 
warehouse group, the Number field will be filled in with number 1. While if the 
number of a specific warehouse is selected, the available quantity in the 
warehouse will be fetched in the Number field according to each 
item. 
 - 
 Number: This field is 
used to select the batch number or the document number for which the items are 
required to be displayed. 
 - 
 Warehouse 
Number: If the 
warehouse number is selected in this field, the items available quantity will be 
fetched in the Number field according to the available quantity in the selected 
warehouse for each item. 
 - 
 Type: Here, the 
document type automatically appears according to the selected document in the 
previous field. 
 - 
 Details: Here, the 
details of the items data appear after being fetched as 
follows: 
 - 
 Print: This option is 
used to select only the items that the user wants to 
print. 
 The rest of the 
fields are automatically filled in according to the parameters that have been 
selected above. 
 إد ارة 
 و تخطيط 
 م وارد الم ؤسسات