Cash Payment for Returns 
 > 
 POS System > System Transactions > 
 Cash Payment for Returns 
 Use: This screen is 
used to record the cash payments for the returns and replacements, noting that a 
(Payment) document can be generated so that the customer receives the amount 
from the cash or from any cashier. It can be posted, and it has accounting 
effects. The user can activate the (Use for Returns and Replacements) parameter 
in the POS Settings screen in order to activate the screen and link its accounts 
that will be affected by the transactions upon posting. Moreover, the screen is 
also used to enter the returns and replacements intermediary accounts or the 
replacement cash in the Parameters screen. It is important to mention that the 
replacement or the return is recorded to this account and cannot be recorded to 
the Cashiers account unless the amount is paid in cash without using this 
screen. Below are the main steps that distinguish between the replacement and 
the return transactions: 
 First: 
Replacement: Below are the 
replacement transaction steps: 
 - 
 The concerned 
employee in the Returns department gives the customer a return invoice of the 
returned goods value, noting that this happens only after returning the goods to 
the Returns Department. 
 - 
 The customer 
replaces the piece with another piece and then goes to the 
cashier. 
 - 
 The customer 
presents the return invoice to the cashier, through which the cashier pays the 
value of the replaced goods by making a new sales invoice. Then, the cashier 
enters the return number and the payment number using the return amount in the 
Payment screen. 
 - 
 The cashier 
keeps the return invoice to be used later in the matching at the end of the 
shift. 
 Second: 
Returns: Below are the 
returns transaction steps: 
 - 
 The concerned 
employee in the Returns department gives the customer a return invoice of the 
returned goods value, noting that this happens only after returning the goods to 
the Returns Department. 
 - 
 The customer 
takes the return invoice and goes to the concerned employee in the Cash Returns 
department, who creates a cash payment voucher from the Cash Payment for Cash 
Returns screen and gives the customer the voucher to complete the return 
transaction with the cashier. 
 - 
 The customer 
goes to any cashier and hands them the voucher, so that the cashier returns the 
amount to the customer. Note that the cashier keeps the return invoice to be 
used later in the matching, and that the second step can be skipped; meaning 
that the cashier can create the return voucher and pay the customer’s amount at 
the same time. 
 Remark: 
 F2 can be used 
to call this screen in the Invoice screen. 
 How to Use Screen 
 - 
 Return 
Number: In this field, 
the return number is recorded or read by the scanner, noting that it is the only 
field in the screen in which the data is entered by the user. After entering the 
return number, the user clicks on the Enter button so that the system displays 
all the return data in the rest of the screen fields. Therefore, the user saves 
immediately and prints the voucher to enable the customer from receiving the 
amount. 
 - 
 Print 
Second Form: This option is 
used to print the second A4 form, noting that the default form is a minimized 
form that is printed by thermal printers. 
 - 
 Accounting 
Entry 
 Credit 
 Debit 
 Accounting Entry 
 Date 
 ***** 
 Returns and Replacements Intermediary 
 Account 
 POS 
 Cash 
 **** 
 - 
 Save : Users press 
this button after completing data 
entry. 
 إد ارة 
 و تخطيط 
 م وارد الم ؤسسات