Cashiers Sales Clearance 
 > 
 POS System > System Transactions > 
 Cashiers Sales Clearance 
 Use: This screen is 
used to clear the cashiers’ sales after the selling transaction. The clearance 
is done by entering the amounts received from the cashier according to the 
categories that have been coded in the Currencies Configuration screen in the 
General Configuration of Onyx ERP. Note that using this screen becomes mandatory 
if the (Not Allow Sales If Previous Sales Are Not Cleared) parameter is 
activated in the POS Parameters and Settings screen. The sales clearance is used 
in the Cashiers Shortage and Overage screen, as the user matches the amounts 
entered in this screen with the actual sales, and displays the overage and 
shortage of each POS by the (Cashier) user. 
 How to Use Screen 
 After clicking on the Add button, the screen is used as 
follows: 
 First: Master Data 
 - 
 Branch 
Number: It 
is used to select the branch in which the (Cashiers Sales Clearance) will be 
done. 
 - 
 User: Here, the user 
for whom the sales will be cleared is selected. 
 - 
 Document 
Number/ Document Date : Here, the 
clearance document number and date appear automatically and cannot be 
modified. 
 - 
 Description: Here, the user 
writes an explanatory description to the cashiers’ sales clearance. 
 - 
 (From 
Date / To Date) / (From Time / To Time): The cashier 
sales are usually cleared on a daily basis, yet these fields allow clearing the 
cashiers’ sales for a specific period by selecting it (From Date / To Date) and 
(From Time / To Time). These fields appear if the user selects the (Multiple) 
option in Sales Clearance Entering Method field in the POS Parameters and 
Settings screen. 
 Second: Detailed Data 
 It 
contains several tabs that will be explained as 
follows: 
 - 
 Total 
Amounts in Local Currency: This tab is 
used to clear the cashiers’ sales amounts in local currency. After adding the 
cashiers’ sales, the system displays all the categories in local currency, and 
then the system user who is responsible for the matching process enters each 
category separately according to what was received from the 
cashier. 
 Hint: 
 The 
net sales are compared to the cash deposits received from the (Cashier) user if 
the ( Don’t 
Show Net Sales Comparison with Cash Deposits) parameter is not activated in the 
POS Parameters and Settings screen. 
 - 
 Total 
Amounts in Foreign Currencies: This tab is 
used to clear the cashiers’ sales amounts in foreign currencies. After adding 
the cashiers’ sales, the system user who is responsible for the matching process 
selects each currency, selects its categories, and records the number of each 
currency and category. 
 - 
 Online 
Payment Total Amounts: This tab is 
used to record the total amounts of the online payment methods (Visa Card - 
Master Card..) based on the vouchers that were printed during the online 
payment. Note that after each online payment transaction, a voucher, including 
the transaction amount, is presented; in order to be matched with the final 
records at the end of each selling transaction. 
 - 
 Total 
of Other Amounts: This Tab is 
used if there are amounts other than the previously mentioned 
amounts. 
 - 
 Save: Users press 
this button after completing data entry. 
 - 
 Used: It means that 
the clearance document has been fetched (Used) in another screen. This flag 
appears as activated if the clearance has been fetched in the Cashiers Sales 
Overage and Shortage screen. 
 - 
 Print: A report can be 
printed to match the actual sales of cashiers, noting that this report can be 
exported to an Excel file. 
 Remark : 
In the sales invoice, an alert message appears if the cashier sales have not 
been cleared. This only happens if the (Not Allow Selling If Previous Sales Are 
Not Cleared) parameter is activated in the POS Parameters and 
Settings. 
 إد ارة 
 و تخطيط 
 م وارد الم ؤسسات